Cloud computing has recently emerged as one of the buzzwords in the ICT
industry. Numerous IT vendors are promising to offer computation, storage,
and application hosting services and to provide coverage in several continents,
offering service-level agreements (SLA)-backed performance and uptime promises
for their services. While these “clouds” are the natural evolution of
traditional data centers, they are distinguished by exposing resources (computation,
data/storage, and applications) as standards-based Web services and
following a “utility” pricing model where customers are charged based on their
utilization of computational resources, storage, and transfer of data. They offer
subscription-based access to infrastructure, platforms, and applications that
are popularly referred to as IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service), PaaS (Platform
as a Service), and SaaS (Software as a Service). While these emerging services
have increased interoperability and usability and reduced the cost of computation,
application hosting, and content storage and delivery by several orders of
magnitude, there is significant complexity involved in ensuring that applications
and services can scale as needed to achieve consistent and reliable
operation under peak loads.and illustrates capabilities and
limitations of current providers of cloud computing services. This allows the
reader to understand the mechanisms needed to harness cloud computing in
their own respective endeavors. Finally, many open research problems that
have arisen from the rapid uptake of cloud computing are detailed. We hope
that this motivates the reader to address these in their own future research and
development. We believe the book to serve as a reference for larger audience
such as systems architects, practitioners, developers, new researchers, and
graduate-level students. This book also comes with an associated Web site
(hosted at http://www.manjrasoft.com/CloudBook/) containing pointers to
advanced on-line resources.